samples/sample-1.adoc, before:

= Sample of using asciidoctor-bibtex
:bibtex-file: biblio.bib
:bibtex-order: alphabetical
:bibtex-style: ieee

The bibliography is searched in the folder of the document, and then in
~/Documents.

Author-year references can use different styles such as: cite:[Lane12b] or
citenp:[Lane12a].

Page numbers can be added: cite:[Lane12a(89)] or citenp:[Lane12a(89-93)].

A bit of pretext can be included too: See cite:[Lane12a(89)]

We can include other files, which are also processed:

include::sample-2.adoc[]

To include the reference list, use the section template before title, to
prevent problems with a2x.

References can be inserted in lists, too:

1. See cite:[Lane12a].
2. See cite:[Anderson98].
3. See cite:[Anderson04].

Also works for unordered list:

* See cite:[Lane12a].
* See cite:[Anderson98].
* See cite:[Anderson04].

Shall also work in tables and footnotes.

[cols="1,1",options="header"]
|===
| Term
| Citation

| Item 1
| Illustrated in cite:[Lane12a].
|===

[sect2] 
== Bibliography

bibliography::biblio.bib[ieee]

Commit message:

Correctly handle citations in footnotes (fix #31)

samples/sample-1.adoc, after:

= Sample of using asciidoctor-bibtex
:bibtex-file: biblio.bib
:bibtex-order: alphabetical
:bibtex-style: ieee

The bibliography is searched in the folder of the document, and then in
~/Documents.

Author-year references can use different styles such as: cite:[Lane12b] or
citenp:[Lane12a].

Page numbers can be added: cite:[Lane12a(89)] or citenp:[Lane12a(89-93)].

A bit of pretext can be included too: See cite:[Lane12a(89)]

We can include other files, which are also processed:

include::sample-2.adoc[]

To include the reference list, use the section template before title, to
prevent problems with a2x.

References can be inserted in lists, too:

1. See cite:[Lane12a].
2. See cite:[Anderson98].
3. See cite:[Anderson04].

Also works for unordered list:

* See cite:[Lane12a].
* See cite:[Anderson98].
* See cite:[Anderson04].

Shall also work in tables:

[cols="1,1",options="header"]
|===
| Term
| Citation

| Item 1
| Illustrated in cite:[Lane12a].
|===

Shall also work in a footnote footnote:[We cite cite:[Lane12a] for this.].

[sect2] 
== Bibliography

bibliography::biblio.bib[ieee]
